Services
* Each service has an IP address and port that never change while the service exists
* Access service from inside of existing pods.
  * Get the service cluster IP by `k get svc`
  * `k exec tongwei-689w6 -- curl -s http://10.105.12.197`
  * The double dash (--) in the command signals the end of command options for kubectl. Everything after the double dash is the command that should be executed inside the pod.
  * **sessionAffinity** is able to make the service forward the request to a specific pod
  * `k get pod -o wide` check more information about pods
  * The biggest benefit of applying **ports name** so is that it enables you to change port numbers later without having to change the service spec.
  * When the pods are initialized, the existing service port and host will be added to pods' environment variables
  * DISCOVERING SERVICES THROUGH DNS
    * The kube-system namespace also includes a corresponding service with the name *kube-dns*
    * access the kubia service through its FQDN(fully qualified domain name) instead of its IP
      *  CAN’T PING A SERVICE IP because the service’s cluster IP is a virtual IP
  * Connecting to services living outside the cluster
    * `k describe service <name>`
      * service's pod selector is used to create the list of endpoints
      * list of pod IPs and ports that represnet the endpoint of this service in **Endpoints** parameter
  * Manually config service endpoints
    * The created Endpoints service metadata.name has to be same as the service that created without selector.
  * Make a service accessible externally
    * Set service type to **NodePort**
      * can be accessed not only through the service’s internal cluster IP, but also through any node’s IP and the reserved node port.
    * Set service type to **LoadBalancer**
    * Create an **Ingress** resource
* Understand Accessing pods through an Ingress
* Exposing multiple services through the same Ingress
  * Clients can therefore reach two different services through a single IP address (that of the Ingress controller).
* configure Ingress to support TLS
  * ```
    openssl genrsa -out tls.key 2048
    openssl req -new -x509 -key tls.key -out tls.cert -days 360 -subj /CN=kubia.example.com
    k create secret tls tls-secret --cert=tls.cert --key=tls.key
    ```
* Readiness Probes
  * `Exec` probe, container's status is determined by the process exit code.
  * `HTTP GET` responde HTTP status code.
  * `TCP Socket probe` open a TCP connection to a specified port of the container.
* Unlike liveness probes, if a container fails the readiness check, it won’t be killed or restarted.
  * Liveness probes keep pods healthy by killing off unhealthy containers and replacing them with new, healthy ones, whereas readiness probes make sure that only pods that are ready to serve requests receive them.
* changing a ReplicationController’s pod template has no effect on existing pods
* Creating a headless service
  * kubectl run dnsutils --image=tutum/dnsutils --command -- sleep infinity
  * kubectl exec dnsutils nslookup kubia-headless
* Troubleshooting services
  * 5.7